Instructions (03/11)
- Register your buildings in the spreadsheet (pick a different building if one has been taken): https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TEzVAwEtJc8jY3CWF_mtlIdE9DsKWIw6ptl8W_A5KQw/edit?usp=sharing
- Go to the GitHub Repo, pull the main branch to your local device. Make sure you have “pivot_merge_script.ipynb.”
- Read the code in “pivot_merge_script.ipynb.” You can open it in either VSCode or Jupyter Notebook.
- Create a new folder called “CleanedDataFiles” (or there’s one provided if you pull the main branch). Make sure/Double Check that the folder has the right name: “CleanedDataFiles” (otherwise the notebook will throw an error)
- Create a new folder called “DataFiles_” + building name + “_” + year. An example is “DataFiles_DuffieldHall_2023.” MAKE SURE that you use this name or else the notebook will throw an error. Also, MAKE SURE that building name matches EXACTLY to the one shown on the portal (that’s why I used DuffieldHall instead of Duffield, Duffield Hall, Duff, etc.)
- Go to the emcs portal and search up the building (we went over how to do so yesterday: go to emcs portal, scroll down, and search)
- Select the absolute time range (top right corner) to from the the 1st day of the month to the 15th of the month. Then, download the raw file. Then, select the time range to from the 16th of the month to the last day of the month. Then, download the raw file. THIS IS IMPORTANT! Do not try to select 1st day of the month to the last day of the month (your excel sheet will be cut off in 10000 rows if you do so). Also, make sure you download the RAW file (not aggregated). The “pivot_merge_script.ipynb” will throw an error if it’s not a raw file. Repeat this process for each month (so ideally there will be 2 sheets/month * 12 months= 24 excel sheets for one building)
- Open the “pivot_merge_script.ipynb.” Do not change anything and run all the cells. If you run into problems with importing packages in the first cell, do “pip install package_name” in your terminal. For example, if there’s no pandas, do “pip install pandas” in your terminal.
- Uncomment the last cell, change the building_name_input into the building name, and change the year into the data year. Then, run the last cell. It should NOT throw a warning. If there’s a warning, that means some dates of the specified year are missing. Check the warning message and download missing data. If you spot an unsolvable problem and you need to override the warning, you should let me know!
